---
layout: post
date: 2024-05-15 09:00:00
categories: APIConnect
title: "Configuring a Load Balancer for DataPower API Gateway"
draft: true
---

This articles covers the key pieces of information that needs to be passed on to the load balancer team to configure the load balancer of choice.

<!--more-->
The scenario we here is we have three DataPowers forming a single Gateway Service. These three DataPowers are using default ports, 9443 for API Invocation Traffic and 3000 for Management Traffic. All DataPowers are also running with an identical hardware specification.

![/images/F5DP.png]

## Load Balancer Algorithm

For both API Invocation Traffic and Management Traffic we would recommend the Least Connections algorithm.

As each DataPower has the same identical hardware configuration least connections ensures that the requests are sent to fewest active connections, and so we can assume that this has the lowest workload.

## Health Check endpoints

For the API Invocation Endpoint,  the webapi-init-check endpoint must be used. E.g.  https://apigw:9443/webapi-init-check. This endpoint responds when APIs are ready to be served, but when the port responds.

For the Management Traffic we recommend the gwd health check - https://apigw:3000/health

## SSL

For the API Invocation Endpoint, it is recommended (not required) to use SSL Passthrough and control the presenter certificates in API Manager. If the customer wants to use MTLS in the future to protect their APIs this solution would not need to change

For Management interface it is recommend that MTLS is used to protect communication between the API Manager and DataPower. If MTLS is not used there is not authentication between the API Manager and DataPower. If MTLS is used the F5 is required to have SSL Passthrough enabled
